docs: add explanation on how to use custom APT configuration (#3151)
canonical/ubuntu-pro-client: docs/howtoguides/use_custom_apt_config.rst

APT will respect this configuration if found in the aforementioned environment
variable:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ APT_CONFIG=/tmp/custom-config apt list --installed
    $ APT_CONFIG=/tmp/custom-config sudo apt update

If the variable is set when executing the Pro Client commands that depend on
APT, it will also be respected:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ APT_CONFIG=/tmp/custom-config pro security-status
    $ APT_CONFIG=/tmp/custom-config pro api u.pro.packages.updates.v1

In the python API integration
=============================

Changing the environment also works for the integration with the Pro Client's
APIs. Even after import time, it is just a matter of setting the value in
``os.environ`` before calling the function.

.. code-block:: python3

    import os
    from uaclient.api.u.pro.packages.updates.v1 import updates

    # call updates using the system APT configuration
    updates()

    # set the custom configuration, so updates will respect it
    os.environ["APT_CONFIG"] = "/tmp/custom-config"
    updates()

    # unsetting the envvar will cause updates to respect system config again
    os.environ["APT_CONFIG"] = ""
    updates()

> .. _configuration set directly on APT: https://manpages.debian.org/unstable/apt/apt.conf.5.en.html

Reviewer: Lets stay within our brand: https://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/apt

Author: done

How to use custom APT configuration
***********************************

> The Pro Client CLI is able, through the security-status command, to show

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Pro Client CLI is able, through the ``security-status`` command, to show
```

> How to use the Pro Client with custom APT configuration

Reviewer 2: Can we shorten this a bit to something more like "How to use custom APT configuration"?

*******************************************************

The Pro Client CLI is able, through the security-status command, to show
information about installed packages in the system, their origins, and

> potential updates that may be available for these. This information is also

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
potential updates that may be available for them. This information is also
```

available through the
:ref:`packages updates API<references/api:u.pro.packages.updates.v1>` and the
:ref:`packages summary API<references/api:u.pro.packages.summary.v1>` calls,
for example.

The information presented on the outputs mentioned above is taken directly

> from the local APT caches. Packages, origins, versions, candidates, all is
> calculated using the ``python3-apt`` library, which in turn relies on whatever
> APT has knowledge about in a particular machine.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
from the local APT caches. Packages, origins, versions, and candidates are all
calculated using the ``python3-apt`` library, which in turn relies on the knowledge
APT has about in a particular machine.
```

> Some users may have the need to configure APT to some specific behaviour. An

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You may need to configure APT to have some specific behaviour. An
```

> example of a use case would be to pass custom ``.list`` or ``.sources`` files,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
example could be to pass custom ``.list`` or ``.sources`` files
```

to APT, whether to limit or to increase knowledge about different package
sources.

The Pro Client will respect the `configuration set directly on APT`_, at
execution time. If system level configuration is present, it will be used by
default. To configure APT without changing the system, there is the option of
passing the config file as an environment variable.

Use an APT config file

> =========================
> For example, consider that the ``/etc/apt/apt.conf.d/50-custom`` file exists,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
=========================

For example, consider that the ``/etc/apt/apt.conf.d/50-custom`` file exists,
```

Reviewer 2: rST likes to have a blank line after headers :)

Author: wah rST can mind its own business I write no useless lines

Author: joking, will fix it.

and has this content:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ cat /etc/apt/apt.conf.d/50-custom
    # setting custom sources.list and unsetting the parts directory
    Dir::Etc::Sourcelist "/my/personal/configured/sources.list";
    Dir::Etc::Sourceparts "nonexisting-dir";

> APT will be using this configuration by default when running all operations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
APT will use this configuration by default when running all operations.
```

The Pro Client will do the same - all outputs will take the custom ``.list``

> file into consideration, and no parts directory will be loaded (unless the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
file into consideration, and no ``parts`` directory will be loaded (unless the
```

> directory set there actually exists ;)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
directory set there actually exists).
```

Author: typo, but my version ended up better anyway

Use an environment variable

> ===========================
> Now, if the user does not want to change their system, the ``APT_CONFIG``

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
===========================

Now, if you do not want to change the system, the ``APT_CONFIG``
```

environment variable can be set when running APT commands, pointing to the
desired configuration file.

For example, let's say that instead of ``apt.conf.d``, the config file is
created in ``/tmp``:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ cat /tmp/custom-config
    # setting custom sources.list and unsetting the parts directory
    Dir::Etc::Sourcelist "/my/personal/configured/sources.list";
    Dir::Etc::Sourceparts "nonexisting-dir";

APT will respect this configuration if found in the aforementioned environment
variable:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ APT_CONFIG=/tmp/custom-config apt list --installed
    $ APT_CONFIG=/tmp/custom-config sudo apt update

If the variable is set when executing the Pro Client commands that depend on
APT, it will also be respected:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ APT_CONFIG=/tmp/custom-config pro security-status
    $ APT_CONFIG=/tmp/custom-config pro api u.pro.packages.updates.v1

In the python API integration

> =============================
> Changing the environment also works for the integration with the Pro Client's

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
=============================

Changing the environment also works for the integration with the Pro Client's
```
